### Notes on Event handling: 
- Are usually defined inside your components.
- By convention, it is common to name event handlers as handle followed by the event name. You’ll often see onClick={handleClick}, onMouseEnter={handleMouseEnter}, and so on.
- event handlers functions are passed as props , not called directly. it will wait for the event to occur before executing the function.


- ``It is best to use arrow functions for event handlers or class methods to ensure that the `this` context is correctly bound to the component instance. This is particularly important in class components, where you might need to bind methods in the constructor or use arrow functions directly in the class body.`` 

for example:
Clock.jsx 
```jsx
handleClick = (e)=>{
        e.preventDefault; 
        this.setState({
            locale: "en-US"
        })
    }
```

if you don't use arrow function and use it like this: 
```jsx
handleClick(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    this.setState({
        locale: "en-US"
    });
}
```
it will not work and throw an error like this:
```
TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'setState')
```
- that means inside the handleClick function, `this` is not referring to the component instance as expected. Instead, it is `undefined`, which is why you get the error when trying to call `this.setState`.


now if you want to pass parameters to the event handler, you can do it like this:
```jsx
handleClick = (e, param) => {
    e.preventDefault();
    this.setState({
        locale: param
    });
}
```
- and then you can call it like this:
```jsx
<button onClick={(e) => this.handleClick(e, "en-US")}>Change Locale</button>
```

- so , you just have to wrap the function call in an arrow function. so when the button is clicked it will invoke the arrow function which will return the `handleClick` function with the event and the parameter you want to pass.




### What if you need to re-render a parent component but don't want to re-render the child components?
- You can use the `shouldComponentUpdate` lifecycle method in class components or the `React.memo` higher-order component in functional components to control re-rendering behavior.
- `shouldComponentUpdate` allows you to compare the current and next props and state, and return `true` or `false` to indicate whether the component should re-render.
- `React.memo` is a higher-order component that memoizes the result of a functional component, preventing unnecessary re-renders if the props haven't changed.

for example , you have a custom Button component whose parent is Clock.jsx component, and you want to prevent the Button component from re-rendering when the Clock component's state changes(and you know the clock component will re-render every seconds), so you can do it like this in the Button.jsx component:
 

 Clock.jsx
```jsx
return (
            <>
            <h1 className="heading">
                <span className="text">
                    {date.toLocaleTimeString(locale)}
                </span>
            </h1>
            <Button change={this.handleClick}>
                Click Me
            </Button>
            </>
            
        );
```

Button.jsx
```jsx 
import React from 'react';


class Button extends React.Component {

    shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState){

        const {change: currentChange, locale: currentLocale} = this.props; //destructuring the change function from props
        const {change: nextChange, locale: nextLocale} = nextProps; //destructuring the change function from nextProps

        if(currentChange === nextChange && currentLocale === nextLocale){
            return false; //if the change function and locale are the same, do not re-render
        }
        else {
            return true; //if the change function is different, re-render the component
        }

    }

    render(){
        console.log("Button component rendered") ; //to check if the component is re-rendered or not
        // console.log(this.props) ; //to check the props passed to the component
        const {change, locale} = this.props; //destructuring the change function from props
        return (
            <button type="button" className="btn btn-primary" onClick={()=> change(locale)}>
                Click Here
            </button>
        );  
    }
}

export default Button;
```
- you should not always use `shouldComponentUpdate` or `React.memo` to prevent re-renders, as it can lead to performance issues if not used correctly. It's best to use them when you have a clear understanding of the component's rendering behavior and when performance is a concern. for small to medium-sized components where you may require to stop re-rendering but its not a performace issue, then you can just ignore it. otherwise, you can use `React.memo` for functional components or `shouldComponentUpdate` for class components to optimize rendering performance. As `shouldComponentUpdate` is also a lifecycle method, which will be called every time the component is about to re-render, so it is also a resource-intensive operation. Therefore, it is best to use it only when necessary, such as when you have a large component tree or when you are dealing with performance-critical applications.